A blessing in disguise: Seems bad, but is actually good
A cat has nine lives: Cats seem to get away with dangerous things
A cat nap: A short sleep during the day
A chip on your shoulder: A tendency to be easily annoyed or angered, especially over petty issues.
A clean slate: A new beginning, with no mistakes or errors.
A closed book: To be difficult to know or understand
A dark horse: Someone who is not well known but has the potential to be successful.
A dime a dozen: Something that is very common or easy to find.
A drop in the bucket: A very small or unimportant amount.
A feather in your cap: An achievement or accomplishment that is a source of pride.
A fish out of water: Someone who is in a situation where they are not comfortable or competent.
A flash in the pan: Something that is briefly successful but does not last.
A foot in the door: An initial advantage or opportunity that can lead to something more.
A gem of a person: Someone who is valuable or precious.
A handful: Someone or something that is difficult to manage or control.
A leopard can’t change its spots: People cannot change their basic nature.
A penny saved is a penny earned: You will save money by being careful about how much you spend
A piece of cake: Easy
A scaredy-cat: Someone who is excessively scared or afraid.
A sight for sore eyes: Something or someone that is very welcome or pleasing to see.
A taste of your own medicine: To experience the same thing that you have done to others.
Ace in the hole: A secret advantage or resource that can be used in a pinch.
Ace up your sleeve: A secret advantage or resource that can be used when needed.
Add fuel to the fire: To make a situation worse or more intense.
Add insult to injury: To make a bad situation worse by saying or doing something hurtful or thoughtless.
Against all odds: Despite difficulties or challenges.
Against the clock: Working as fast as possible to meet a deadline.
Ahead of the curve: Ahead of others in terms of knowledge or progress.
Air rage: Angry behavior inside an airplane
Air your dirty laundry: To publicly reveal or discuss private or embarrassing information about someone or something.
Alive and kicking: Still alive and active.
All bark and no bite: Someone who talks a lot but doesn’t actually do anything.
All bets are off: The rules or expectations are no longer in place.
All ears: Listening attentively.
All in a day’s work: Something that is routine or expected.
All in a tizzy: Confused or agitated.)
All of a sudden: Suddenly, without warning.
All systems go: Everything is ready to start.
All thumbs: Clumsy, awkward.
An arm and a leg: Something that is very expensive.
An eye for an eye: The idea that when someone does something wrong to you, you should do something wrong to them in return.
Apple of my eye: Someone who is very dear to you.
As easy as pie: Something that is very easy to do.
As fit as a fiddle: To be healthy and physically fit
At the drop of a hat: Without hesitation, immediately.
Back to square one: starting something over from the beginning
Baker’s dozen: 13 of something
Ball is in your court: it is your turn to take action or make a decision
Barking up the wrong tree: pursuing the wrong course of action
Barrel of laugh: Someone who is very funny
Beating around the bush: Not discussing what is important/ procrastinating
Bend over backwards: make a lot of effort
Bent out of shape: To feel upset or annoyed about something
Big task on your hand: Having something important to finish
Bite off more than you can chew: take on more than you can handle
Bite the bullet: to face something difficult or unpleasant
Blow one’s stack: To lose one’s temper and explode in anger
Break a leg: Good luck
Bring home the bacon: provide for one’s family financially
Bull in a china shop: someone who is clumsy or careless and causes damage or destruction
Burn the midnight oil: work late into the night
Butter someone up: flatter someone in order to get something from them
Buy a lemon: To buy something that doesn’t work well (usually refers to care)
Buy a pig in a poke: purchase something without knowing all the details or facts
By the skin of your teeth: barely, narrowly
Cakewalk: something that is very easy
Calm before the storm: a period of quiet or tranquility before a difficult or tumultuous event
Can’t stand (something): To dislike something
Cast pearls before swine: offer something valuable to someone who does not appreciate it
Cat on a hot in roof: Be extremely nervous
Cat out of the bag: reveal a secret
Chalk up: attribute to
Change your tune: Change your opinion about something or someone
Chase rainbows: pursue something that is unattainable
Cheap as dirt: very inexpensive
Chicken out: to back out of something due to fear or lack of courage
Chip on your shoulder: a tendency to be angry or resentful over something
Chuck a wobbly: To act in an emotional way
Clean bill of health: A report or certificate that a person or animal is healthy
Close but no cigar: Close but failed at the end
Cold shoulder: to ignore or reject someone
Cook the books: To change accounts and figures dishonestly, usually to get money
Cool as a cucumber: Very calm, not nervous
Cool cat: Someone who has the respect of their peers in a young, casual way
Couch potato: Someone who lies around and barely moves
Cream of the crop: The best of a group of similar things or people
Crocodile tears: Fake tears or false sadness
Cry crocodile tears: to feign sadness or remorse
Cry foul: to protest or complain about something being unfair
Cry havoc and let slip the dogs of war: a quote from Shakespeare’s play “Julius Caesar,” meaning to create chaos and start a war
Cry havoc: create chaos or confusion
Cry one’s eyes out: Cry a lot and for a long time
Cry over spilt milk: Complain about something that cannot be changed
Cry uncle: give up, admit defeat
Cry wolf: to raise a false alarm
Cry your eyes out: to be extremely sad
Curiosity killed the cat: Being too curious can get you into trouble
Curry favor: try to gain favor or support from someone
Cut and dry: straightforward, no room for debate
Cut the mustard: to meet the required standards or expectations
Cut to the chase: get to the point
Damp squib: a failure or disappointment.
Dark horse: a person who is not well-known but has the potential to be successful.
Dead in the water: not making progress or not able to be completed.
Dead to the world: deeply asleep or unconscious.
Devil’s advocate: someone who takes a contrary position or argues against a belief or proposition just for the sake of an argument.
Diamond in the rough: someone or something with potential or talent that is not yet fully developed or recognized.
Die is cast: a decision has been made and cannot be changed.
Dim the lights: to reduce the brightness of the lights.
Dime a dozen: Very common and no special value; easily available
Dinner and a show: an event or outing that combines a meal with entertainment.
Dip your toe in the water: to try something new or test the waters before fully committing to it.
Dog days of summer: The hottest, most humid days of summer
Don’t swear it: Don’t worry about it
Down in the dumps: Depressed, sad
Draw a blank: Be unable to remember something
Dressed to the nines: Dressed fashionably
Drive a hard bargain: To arrange a transaction so that it benefits oneself
Drive someone up the wall: Deeply irritate someone
Driving me bananas: Making me feel crazy
Each to their own: a way of saying that everyone has different opinions and preferences and that is okay.
Early bird gets the worm: the person who arrives or takes action early has an advantage.
Ears are burning: a feeling that someone is talking about you or that you are the topic of conversation.
Easier said than done: Easy to say, but hard to actually do
Easy as pie: something that is very easy to do.
Eat crow: To have to admit that you made a mistake
Eat your heart out: to feel jealous or envious of someone or something.
Egg on: to encourage or incite someone to do something.
Elbow grease: hard physical work or effort.
End of the road: the end or conclusion of something.
Even a cat can look at a king/queen: I have every right to do this
Every cloud has a silver lining: there is a positive aspect to every negative situation.
Everyone’s cup of tea: something that is enjoyed by everyone or suitable for everyone.
Face like a wet week-end: Look sad and miserable
Face the music: to accept the consequences of one’s actions.
Fair weather friend: a person who is only a friend during good times and not during difficult times.
Falling on deaf ears: not being listened to or paid attention to.
Fat cat: A negative description of a rich and powerful person
Feast or famine: a situation that alternates between having too much of something and having too little of it.
Feeling under the weather: not feeling well or sick.
Few and far between: not frequent or common.
Fiddle while Rome burns: to be indifferent or do something trivial while something important is happening.
Fifth wheel: an unnecessary or extra person in a group.
Fight like cat and dog: Continually arguing with each other
Fit as a fiddle: in good health.
Fly by the seat of your pants: to act on impulse or without a plan.
Get a leg up: to gain an advantage or opportunity.
Get cold feet: to become nervous or hesitant about something.
Get out of town: I don’t believe you
Get over it: Forget about the past
Get up on the wrong side of the bed: Someone that is having a horrible day
Get your ducks in a row: to get organized or prepared.
Get your hands dirty: to do practical or hard work.
Give a cold shoulder: to ignore or be unfriendly to someone.
Give an inch, take a mile: if someone is allowed to have or do something small, they will take advantage and want more.
Go back to the drawing board: to start something again because the previous attempt was not successful.
Go out on a limb: to take a risk or do something that may be dangerous.
Go under the knife: To have an operation in surgery, often a cosmetic surgery
Gone off track: Forgot about your future goal
Good things come to those who wait: good things will happen to those who are patient and persistent.
Goody two shoes: Someone who tries to be perfect
Grab the bull by the horns: to confront a problem or challenge directly.
Green thumb: Grow lush without trying
Green with envy: Very jealous
Hair of the dog: a drink that is supposed to cure a hangover.
Hands are tied: unable to do anything to help or change a situation.
Hands down: For certain the right answer
Hang on a second: Wait for a moment
Happy as a clam: very happy or content.
Harm’s way: in a dangerous or risky situation.
Have a bone to pick: to have a disagreement or complaint to discuss with someone.
Have an ace up your sleeve: to have a secret advantage or plan.
Have stumbled upon: To accidentally discover something
Have your head in the clouds: to be unrealistic or not paying attention to the present.
Head over heels: very much in love or infatuated.
Heart is set on: to really want or desire something.
Hit the hay: Go to bed
Hit the road: To leave
Hold your horses: Wait/ calm down
I have butterflies in my stomach: You’re either in love or nervous
I was knocked on my heels: I was surprised
Icing on the cake: something that makes a good situation even better.
In a nutshell: in a few words or briefly.
In a pickle: in a difficult or awkward situation.
In a rut: in a repetitive or boring situation.
In hot water: in trouble or in a difficult situation.
In the bag: Will definitely happen
In the black: to be financially successful or profitable.
In the heat of the moment: in the midst of a strong emotion or excitement.
In the know: having insider information or being well-informed.
In the same boat: in a similar situation or experiencing the same difficulties.
Inside scoop: The details
Jumping the gun: to do something too soon or before it is appropriate.
Jumping out of your skin: to be very surprised or shocked.
Just what the doctor ordered: exactly what is needed or wanted.
Just between you and me: said when you want to tell someone something privately.
Just the ticket: exactly what is needed or wanted.
Jekyll and Hyde: a person who has a dual personality, one good and one evil.
Join the club: to be in the same situation as someone else.
Jumping through hoops: doing a lot of hard work or going through a lot of effort.
Jumping on the bandwagon: joining in on something that is popular or fashionable.
Just a drop in the bucket: a small amount compared to the whole.
Landslide victory: a win by a large margin.
Last but not least: used to introduce the final item in a list.
Last straw: the final problem or burden that causes someone to break or give up.
Laughing all the way to the bank: being very successful or profitable.
Laughing on the outside, crying on the inside: pretending to be happy but feeling sad or distressed.
Leaps and bounds: making a lot of progress or improvement.
Let bygones be bygones: to forget about past conflicts or mistakes and move on.
Let the cat out of the bag: to reveal a secret unintentionally.
Let your hair down: to relax and have fun.
Life is just a bowl of cherries: The life is pleasant and uncomplicated
Like a dog with two tails: Extremely happy
Mad as a hatter: Mentally ill, psychotic
Mad as a hornet: very angry.
Make a beeline for: to go straight to a specific place or person.
Make a clean breast of it: to confess or admit to something.
Make a mountain out of a molehill: to make a small problem seem much bigger than it is.
Make a splash: to attract a lot of attention or make an impact.
Make hay while the sun shines: to make the most of a good opportunity while it is available.
Make the most of: to use something to the fullest advantage.
Making ends meet: having just enough money to pay for basic expenses.
Meeting of the minds: Strong instinctive agreement on something
Miss the boat: to miss an opportunity or not arrive in time.
Mum’s the word: to keep something a secret.
Nail on the head: to be exactly right or accurate.
Name in lights: to be very famous or successful.
Nature of the beast: an inherent quality that cannot be changed.
Narrow escape: barely avoiding a problem or danger.
Neck and neck: tied or evenly matched.
Neck of the woods: a particular area or location.
Needle in a haystack: something that is difficult to find or locate.
Nest egg: a sum of money saved for a specific purpose.
New blood: new people or fresh ideas.
New kid on the block: a newcomer or someone who is not experienced.
New lease on life: a new opportunity or a renewed sense of energy and purpose.
Next to nothing: almost nothing or a very small amount.
Night owl: a person who stays up late and is active at night.
Nine lives: to have a lot of luck or be able to survive difficult situations.
Nip and tuck: very close or evenly matched.
Nip in the bud: to stop something before it becomes a bigger problem.
No brainer: an obvious decision or choice.
No holds barred: unrestricted or uncontrolled.
No love lost: to have no affection or respect for someone.
No room to swing a cat: Very small, not big enough
No skin off my nose: something that does not affect or concern someone.
No stone unturned: to leave no possibility unexplored.
Nose to the grindstone: working hard and consistently.
Not all it’s cracked up to be: not as good as it is claimed to be.
Not cut out for: not suited or qualified for something.
Not in the same league: not as good or competent as someone else.
Not miss a beat: to not miss an opportunity or not show any signs of slowing down.
Not my cup of tea: not something that someone enjoys or is interested in.
Not playing with a full deck: not being mentally capable or sane.
Not the sharpest tool in the shed: not the most intelligent or perceptive person.
Not up to snuff: not meeting the required standard or expectations.
Not worth the paper it’s written on: not worth considering or valuable.
Nowhere to be found: not able to be located.
No-win situation: a situation where there is no possibility of success.
Nutty as a fruit cake: Someone who is a bit crazy
Oddball: A weirdo or a strange person
Off one’s rocker: Crazy, nuts, insane
Off the beaten path: in a less traveled or usual place.
Off the cuff: without preparation or thought.
Off the hook: no longer responsible or accountable for something.
Off the record: not meant to be shared or repeated.
Off the top of your head: without thinking or hesitation.
On cloud nine: Blissfully happy
On the ball: Prepared, alert, competent
On the fence: Undecided between two choices
On the ropes: in a difficult or disadvantaged position.
On the same page: in agreement or understanding.
On the spot: to be required to do something immediately or to be placed in an embarrassing or difficult situation.
On the verge of: close to achieving or experiencing something.
On thin ice: in a risky or precarious situation.
On your high horse: Superior or arrogant position
Once bitten twice shy: Said when you are frightened to do something again because you had an unpleasant experience doing it the first time
Once in a blue moon: very rarely or almost never.
Out of left field: unexpected or unrelated.
Out of sorts: Slightly ill, not feeling well
Out of the frying pan and into the fire: moving from one difficult situation to another.
Over the hill/ Old as the hill: Someone who is very old
Out of pocket: not available or unable to be reached.
Out of the woods: out of a difficult or dangerous situation.
Over the top: excessive or exaggerated.
Oxygen thief: a person who takes up more than their share of resources or attention.
Out of the ordinary: unusual or unexpected.
Packed to the rafters: very crowded or full.
Paddle one’s own canoe: To be able to act independently
Paint the town red: to have a wild and fun time.
Pass the buck: to avoid responsibility or blame by shifting it to someone else.
Pass with flying colors: to succeed or do very well.
Passing fancy: A temporary interest or attraction
Peanut gallery: a group of people who criticize or offer unwanted advice.
Peas in the pod: People who are close
Penny pincher: a person who is very thrifty or cheap.
Perfect storm: a rare and powerful combination of events or factors.
Pie in the sky: Something you hope will happen, but is very likely
Piggy bank: a container used to save money.
Pile it on: to add or do more than necessary.
Pillar of the community: a respected and influential member of a community.
Play your cards close to your chest: to keep your plans or intentions secret.
Play your cards right: to do something in the most advantageous way.
Point with pride: to be proud of something.
Poke your nose into: to intrude or interfere in something.
Pop the question: to propose marriage.
Pull out all the stops: to use all available resources or do everything possible.
Pull the plug: to end or cancel something.
Pull the wool over someone’s eyes: to deceive or mislead someone.
Pull your weight: to contribute equally to a group effort.
Punch above your weight: to perform or succeed beyond what is expected or typical.
Push the envelope: to challenge or test the limits.
Put the cart before the horse: To do things out of the proper order
Put two and two together: to understand or figure out something from the available information.
Put your foot in your mouth: to say something inappropriate or embarrassing.
Put your money where your mouth is: to prove your commitment or belief through action.
Put your nose to the grindstone: to work hard and consistently.
Quick on the draw: able to react quickly or make decisions quickly.
Quit cold turkey: to stop something abruptly and completely.
Queer the pitch: to ruin or spoil something.
Question mark: a person or thing that is uncertain or unknown.
Quid pro quo: a favor or advantage given in return for something.
Rain cats and dogs: Rain very heavily
Rain check: to postpone or reschedule something for a later time.
Raise the bar: to set a higher standard or expectation.
Red herring: something that distracts or misleads from the main issue.
Ride shotgun: to sit in the front passenger seat of a vehicle.
Right as rain: in good health or working correctly.
Ring a bell: to be familiar or remind someone of something.
Rise and shine: to wake up and start the day.
Rome wasn’t built in a day: a project or task will take time to complete.
Rub the wrong way: to annoy or irritate someone.
Rule of thumb: a general guideline or principle.
Seeing is believing: you need to experience something to truly believe it
Sell like hotcakes: to sell quickly or in large quantities
Sell oneself short: to underestimate one’s own abilities or worth
Shake a leg: to hurry up or move quickly
Shape up or ship out: to improve one’s performance or face being fired
Shoot for the moon: to aim for an ambitious goal
Shoot the breeze: to have a casual conversation
Show one’s true colors: to reveal one’s true nature or character
Sitting on the fence: to remain neutral or indecisive
Skin of one’s teeth: by a very narrow margin
Smart cookie: A person who is very intelligent
Smell a rat: to suspect something is wrong
Sowing one’s wild oats: to engage in youthful misbehavior or recklessness
Spill the beans: to reveal a secret
Spinning one’s wheels: to make no progress
Spit it out: Say what you’re trying to say
Stand on ceremony: to adhere to formal etiquette or protocol
Stick in one’s craw: to irritate or annoy someone
Stick one’s nose in: to intrude or interfere where not wanted
Stick to one’s guns: to remain firm in one’s beliefs or actions
Still waters run deep: a person who is quiet and unassuming may have hidden depths
Straight from the horse’s mouth: information received directly from the source
Swing for the fences: to make a bold, all-out effort to achieve something
Sweating bullets: to be extremely nervous or anxious
Swimming against the tide: to act in opposition to the majority or the norm
Sweeten the pot: to make an offer more attractive or enticing
Take for a ride: to cheat or deceive someone
Take it easy: Don’t hurry, relax, don’t get angry
Take it with a grain of salt: to not take something too seriously or to view it with skepticism
Take the bull by the horns: to face a problem or challenge head-on
Take the cake: to be the best or most impressive of its kind
Take the plunge: to take a risk or make a big commitment
Take the wind out of one’s sails: to dampen or discourage someone’s enthusiasm or confidence
Talk the talk: to speak confidently or knowledgably about a subject
Taste of one’s own medicine: to experience something that one has inflicted on others
Tears of a clown: to hide one’s true emotions behind a facade of cheerfulness
The ball is in your court: it’s now the other person’s turn to act or make a decision
The whole nine yards: everything that is possible or needed
The writing is on the wall: an indication of an impending event or outcome
Third time’s the charm: success may be achieved after two previous failures
Through the grapevine: The informal spreading, gossip, or rumors
Throw in the towel: to give up or quit
Throw under the bus: to sacrifice or betray someone for one’s own benefit
Tie the knot: To get married
Tip of the iceberg: only a small portion of something much larger
To kill 2 birds with 1 stone: To solve 2 problems at once with 1 action.
Toe the line: to conform to a rule or standard
Top banana: A boss
Touch and go: uncertain or risky
Turn over a new leaf: to reform oneself and make a fresh start
Under the impression: Believing something, perhaps mistakenly
Uncharted territory: a situation or area that is unfamiliar or not well-known.
Under the gun: under pressure or in a difficult situation.
Under wraps: kept secret or hidden.
Up for grabs: available to be taken or won.
Up in arms: angry and protesting.
Up the ante: to increase the stakes or level of competition.
Up to par: meeting the expected or required standards.
Uphill battle: a struggle that is difficult to win.
Use your head: to think before acting.
Vanquish the enemy: to defeat or overcome an opponent.
Venture into unknown territory: to try something new and uncertain.
Venture off the beaten path: to take a different and less-traveled route.
Vested interest: a specific stake or involvement in something.
Vexed to no end: extremely annoyed or frustrated.
Vicious cycle: a pattern of behavior that repeats itself and causes more harm than good.
Voice of reason: someone who is rational and provides good advice.
Vying for attention: competing for recognition or acknowledgment.
Yarn-spinning: tell a tall tale or story that is not true.
Yearning for: having a strong desire for something
Yellow-bellied: refers to a coward or a person who is afraid to take action.
You can’t have your cake and eat it too: You can’t have it all. if you want something you have to give up something else.
You can’t make an omelet without breaking eggs: you can’t achieve a goal without facing some challenges or sacrifices along the way.
You scratch my back, I’ll scratch yours: a reciprocal agreement to help or benefit each other.
Young at heart: Having a youthful outlook, regardless of age
Your heart sinks: Feel very unhappy and despondent
You’re in hot water: you’re in trouble or in a difficult situation
You’re on thin ice: You are in a dangerous or risky situation
You’ve met your match: you’ve come across someone who is your equal in terms of skill, ability, or determinatio